README.md, before:

# Rusty Chess Engine

A work in progress chess (and anti-chess) engine written in Rust.

## Usage

### CLI

```bash
cargo run --release -- --mode=[perft|uci|bestmove] --depth=[depth] --fen="[fen]"
```

## Overview

## Engine Features

- [x] BitBoard representation
- [x] FEN parsing
- [x] Move generation
- - [x] Move generation for leap pieces (knight, king)
- - [x] Magic number move generation for sliding pieces (bishop, rook, queen)
- - [x] Move generation for pawns (double move, capture, and promotion)
- - [x] Move generation for castling and en passant
- [x] Move validation - is the move legal? (friendly capture or king in check)
- [x] Perft testing (node count only) - completed
- [] Replace board cloning on recursion with board make-unmake. This requires a refactor of make_move and unmake_move so to make them more light-weight. That will be done by taking the heavy validation code and putting it in generate move or validate move, so that make/unmake are purely for updating the board state.
- [] Perft testing (stratified node count among captures, promotions, checks, checkmates)
- [] Endgame Detection (checkmate, stalemate, insufficient material, repetition, 50 move rule) + perft
- [] Proper Testing Suite cfgs (unit tests, integration tests, perft tests)

## Resources:

- [Chess Programming Wiki](https://www.chessprogramming.org/Main_Page)
- [Peter Keller's Blog Post](https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~psilord/blog/data/chess-pages/)

Commit message:

added rough plans for refactor

README.md, after:

# Rusty Chess Engine

A work in progress chess engine written in Rust.

## Usage

### CLI

```bash
cargo run --release -- --mode=[perft|uci|bestmove] --depth=[depth] --fen="[fen]"
```

## Overview

## Engine Features

- [x] BitBoard representation
- [x] FEN parsing
- [x] Move generation
- - [x] Move generation for leap pieces (knight, king)
- - [x] Magic number move generation for sliding pieces (bishop, rook, queen)
- - [x] Move generation for pawns (double move, capture, and promotion)
- - [x] Move generation for castling and en passant
- [x] Move validation - is the move legal? (friendly capture or king in check)
- [x] Perft testing (node count only) - completed
- [] Replace board cloning on recursion with board make-unmake. This requires a refactor of make_move and unmake_move so to make them more light-weight. That will be done by taking the heavy validation code and putting it in generate move or validate move, so that make/unmake are purely for updating the board state.
- [] Perft testing (stratified node count among captures, promotions, checks, checkmates)
- [] Endgame Detection (checkmate, stalemate, insufficient material, repetition, 50 move rule) + perft
- [] Proper Testing Suite cfgs (unit tests, integration tests, perft tests)

## Resources:

- [Chess Programming Wiki](https://www.chessprogramming.org/Main_Page)
- [Peter Keller's Blog Post](https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~psilord/blog/data/chess-pages/)

Plan for refactoring

- figure out new file structure and separate out files with many structs and enums
- figure out how to turn board.rs into a module with manageable sized files
- figure out how to create and integrate a testing suite using either stockfish with fens, or tables of pre-caluclated perft results. the latter will be useful once i start testing for stratified perft results.
- figure out how to refactor make_move and unmake_move to be more lightweight, and move the heavy validation code to generate_move or validate_move. This will allow me to use make_move and unmake_move in the perft tests, and will also allow me to use them in the search algorithm without cloning the board every time. This has the potential to be a big performance boost.
- propagate errors properly instead of just unwrapping everything. use a logging crate to log errors and debug information at different levels. Save it to a logfile.
- Memory/time/cpu benchmarking and profiling for each function (probably some crate exists for this)
- go through all function names for major structs and make sure they're named well. ensure consistency with variable names and shorten function bodies to be more readable when necessary.
